have you ever wondered why a company
like lauro Pian can sell a white linen
shirt for
£625 when you can get a perfectly
functional linen Shir from somewhere
like H&M for 16 bucks well the onset is
linked to behavioral psychology and
recognizing that selling luxury
Creations requires a uniquely different
set of skills than traditional selling
my name is Paul Russell and if you're
new to my videos I'm the managing
director and co-founder of luxury
Academy where I've had the privilege of
collaborating with globally renowned
luxury businesses helping them to forge
meaningful relationships with high netw
worth clients I'm going to take you
behind the scenes of luxury selling
focusing on the psychological aspects so
you too can learn how to influence high
no worth clients to buy from you now the
first and I think perhaps the most
important lesson is that luxury is all
about desire you see desire is an
intensely strong emotion and we as
humans will do almost anything in its
Pursuit it's desire that enables Brands
like lauro piano to sell breathtaking
expensive shirts as I mentioned in the
introduction a huge mistake people often
make is confusing Desire with needs and
wants nobody needs to pay that much for
a shirt that's why phrases like needs
analysis within luxury annoy me so
intensely because I don't need an
S-Class Mercedes or an X7 BMW I may want
one but that doesn't automatically
convert to a sale now does it if you
step back and look at luxury critically
yes a Rolex watch is nice and the
craftsmanship is beautiful but what do I
need to watch for well to tell the time
of course so a Casio or timx would do
the same job the secret behind why I
desire Rolex so badly is down to
something called identity markers
whether we like it or not luxury
products are perceived as symbols of
achievement money and social status thez
barenberg is a fantastic example of an
identity Mark it's one of the most
sought after and expensive handbags in
the wild and it's known for its
Exquisite craftsmanship its luxurious
material and its iconic status and
despite its I wateringly high price tag
which can range from thousands to
hundreds of thousands of pounds demand
for the burken B far exceeds its limited
Supply owning the BG becomes part of
your identity it tells a lot about how I
want to project an image of myself to
the world so I I suppose the burning
question is how do you tap into that
psychology and sell luxury well the best
advice I can show is selling luxury is
very much about creating an experience
let let me explain High net worth
clients hate sales people so typical
High Street sales tactics where you may
try to convince a person they need an
item simply won't work I think it's
helpful to remember it this way a
Supercar salesperson does not sell cars
to rich people instead they help a high
Networth client acquire the right
vehicles for their lifestyle the two may
sound similar sell and acquire but it's
very different psychologically a jeweler
doesn't help someone buy a bespoke CTI
necklace instead they help them own it
the key here is that you must sound and
act like an expert not a salesperson
High Networth clients are surrounded by
experts all day every day another way to
sell luxury is to harness the power of
exclusivity as humans We crave
exclusivity even in the most mundane
things priority check-ins or priority
boarding at airports Uber black over
Uber X whe over Uber a great example of
exclusivity is the Pinnacle of
exclusivity the American Express
Centurion card probably better known as
the AMX black card now with a £10,000
joining fee and a 5,000 annual
membership charge you may be surprised
to learn that the card has pretty much
the exact same functionality as the MX
platinum card but as we now know it
isn't about the need to have a credit
card to pay for something it's all about
the exclusivity of taking out a black
AMX of which there are only a few
thousand in the world if you want to
sell luxury you must tap into this gving
for exclusivity by creating experiences
that reinforce something rare finally
there's the emotional connection to a
brand and how it makes you feel and this
is created through the history and
Heritage alongside the craftsmanship of
course it all plays into an emotional
narrative you have brands that are loud
and proud like verace and Gucci they
proudly plaster their logo and icon over
everything in an attempt to scream to
the world please look at me and then
there are quieter GRS like Brunello
Chell who managed to sell incredibly
expensive products in a much more
understated fashion let me get something
off my chest there's a neest trend and I
hear people talk about it a lot recently
and that's affordable luxury let me be
clear this is nonsense if a product of
service can be afforded by the general
population then it isn't luxury the lack
of exclusivity will never trigger the
parts of the brain that get a deep sense
of satisfaction and let's be honest
superiority that a real luxury product
producer so to summarize the key
takeaways luxury is about desire not
needs and wants High net worth clients
buy luxury as as symbols of achievement
wealth and social status and we call
these identity markers and if you want
these clients to buy from you need to
create an experience of exclusivity and
you need to be an expert not a
salesperson I hope you find this useful